<!------------------------------>
<!---->
<!---->
# ChatApp websocket

# Backend - SpringBoot

# Group Chat Application - Requirements

## Objective
1. User can join an existing room by entering a room ID.
2. User can create a new room with a unique room ID.
3. Messages within a room are stored in MongoDB for persistence.
4. Users can see previously saved messages when they join a room.
5. Real-time messaging updates for all users in the room.

## Functional requirement
### Room Management
1. Create Room
    - Users can create a new room by entering a unique name or ID.
    - The system should validate that the room ID is unique.
    - Save the new room details in MongoDB.

2. Join Room
    - Users can join an existing room by entering its room ID.
    - If the room ID is valid, they should be able to see all past messages and start chatting.
    - If the room does not exist, an error message should be shown.
### Messaging:
1. User can send a nd receive messages in real-time.
2. Messages should be saved in MongoDB under the respective room.
### Real-Time Communication:
1. Use WebSocket to deliver messages instantly to all users in a room.
### Non-Functional Requirements
1. Scalability
    - Support multiple rooms and users simultaneously.
    - MongoDB should efficiently handle chat data.
2. Performance 
    - Real-time delivery of messages with minimal latency.
    - Quick fetch of messages for a room from MongoDB.
3. User-Friendly Interface
    - Display clear options for creating and joining rooms.
    - Simple UI for chatting and room management.
## System Design 
### Database Schema (MongoDB)
1. Room Collection:
 - _id : Unique ID for room (auto-generated by MongoDB)
 - roomID : Unique string identifier for the room (user-defined or auto-generated)
 - messages : Array of message objects.
    - Each message contains: 
        - sender : Name of user.
        - context : The chat message.
        - timestamp : Date and time of the message.
    Example : 
    ```json 
    {
        [
            {
                "sender": "Alice",
                "context": "Hello, everyone!" ,
                "timestamp": "2024-11-27T10:16:00Z"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```
### API Endpoints
#### As per examples




## Frontend 
1. React
2. Tailwind
3. Websocket client lib

## Backend
1. Spring Boot
2. Simple Rest APIs
3. Web Socket
4. MongoDB


